# Node.js Loaders Team Meeting 2021-05-14

## Links

* **Recording**: https://youtu.be/tYamVJ9KbiM
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/loaders/issues/2

## Present

* Loaders team: @nodejs/loaders
* Geoffrey Booth, @GeoffreyBooth
* Michaël Zasso, @targos
* Stephen Belanger, @qard
* Jacob Smith, @JakobJingleheimer
* Bradley Farias, @bmeck

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **loaders-agenda** labeled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/node

* esm: consolidate ESM Loader methods [#37468](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/37468)
* Allow main thread to be supplanted by another [#38454](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/38454)

#### esm: consolidate ESM Loader methods [#37468](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/37468)

Needed answer on question of whether `resolve` can optionally return `format`, for when you know that already (e.g. from file extension). Group says yes. This was the last outstanding issue holding back that PR, pending Guy and Geoffrey’s reviews.

#### Allow main thread to be supplanted by another [#38454](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/38454)

Use case: when running Node in environments that don’t permit flags, such as AWS Lambda, and the user wants to include instrumentation/monitoring that needs to be part of the preload phase such as via --loader.

Bradley suggests something similar to the Unix `exec`, where there’s some way to tell Node “hey, spawn this new child process and have it supplant the current (main) process.” Like a new method on `process` for example. This would be tricky to implement, but shouldn’t encounter too much resistance; most likely anticipated complaint is the risk that this could allow privilege escalation, but a) we look to OS sandboxing as the guard against that, and b) we _could_ implement some kind of check that the new process doesn’t have greater privileges than the parent, though such a check would be hard to get secure.

#### Catching user errors, e.g. forgetting to call `next`

Jakob mentioned that while testing his PR, he often was stumped by his loaders not behaving as expected, because he accidentally didn’t call `next` or didn’t call it in the code path he thought was being followed. We should perhaps have some kind of warning printed to users when `next` is never called, similar to `fs.promises` warning users when file descriptors aren’t garbage collected. We should open an issue to track this as a potential UX improvement (or discuss potentially always having each loader’s hooks always be called, though that introduces other issues that allowing short-circuiting solves).
