# Node.js  Loaders Team Meeting 2022-07-19

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=psfwnrwcJGo
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/loaders/issues/96

## Present

* Loaders team: @nodejs/loaders
* Geoffrey Booth: @GeoffreyBooth
* Antoine du Hamel @aduh95
* Daniel Rosenwasser: @DanielRosenwasser
* Jacob Smith: @JakobJingleheimer

## Agenda

* Proposal: Rename “loaders” to “hooks” https://github.com/nodejs/loaders/issues/95
* Loader Configuration https://github.com/nodejs/loaders/issues/98

## Notes

* @aduh95 will look into file-based configuration for Node. One idea is Node support for dot env files.
* @JakobJingleheimer will look into moving loaders off-thread.
* @GeoffreyBooth will look into the two `package.json`-related helpers.
